`bored-algebra` is intended to be a rust library for commutative algebra. At this point it's mostly just sketches and a polynomial implementation that doesn't have much that works. The intention is to create a library that can answer questions like 

- is a given high-degree polynomial over Z/2 irreducible?
- what is the Grobner basis for the ideal generated by a given list of polynomials in (Z/7)\[X1, X2, ..., X8\]?
- given an element r and a multiplicative subset S of a finite ring R, is r a unit in the localization of R at S?

I wanted to learn rust's type system in more depth and see how well it works for recursive types and math abstractions. It seems like a weird mishmash so far. Hopefully that will lead to understanding in the long term, but I've been tempted to abandon this and try learning Haskell instead many times. There are numerous far-off ideas of where this could go. Some are:

- homology of simplicial complexes, finite groups, spectral sequence computations
- approximation-based computations in infinite structures like Laurent series, polynomials in countably many variables
- use of graphics libraries to plot intersections of surfaces, other algebraic geometry applications
- category-theoretic approaches, abelian categories

It is unlikely this project will progress that far. They are left as an exercise for the reader (haha). 

## How to view the documentation

This library is not on `crates.io`, so here are the steps to view the documentation. First, clone
the repo:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/homologay/bored-algebra
cd bored-algebra
```
Then build the documentation with the following flags, so the LaTeX renders properly.
```sh
RUSTDOCFLAGS="--html-in-header mod_r/src/katex-header.html" cargo doc --no-deps --open
```
This method is from the crate `rustdoc-katex-demo`.  

## Contributing

Pretty early stages for that, but I'd take any feedback you may have :)
